new blog post - Sesam extension (#15)
sysco-middleware/sysco-middleware.github.io: _posts/2019-02-27-Extending-Sesam-integration-platform-with-custom-data-sink-service.md

    },
    "image": "<location of your image>",
    "port": 5000
  },
  "verify_ssl": true
}

```
Press "Save" - you system is stored. Then open "Secrets" tab and add following items to Sesam vault:
* service_namespace - with your Azure Service Bus namespace
* service_sas_token_name - with SAS token name
* service_sas_token_value - with content of SAS token

Now your system will be able to use them without exposing as plain text to everyone including yourself.

We have now a data sink system ready to receive data, and next step is to send some data to it. Open "Pipes" menu and create new pipe using following pipe definition: 
```json
{
  "_id": "azure-sb-sink-pipe",
  "type": "pipe",
  "source": {
    "type": "embedded",
    "entities": [{
      "_id": "1",
      "value": "foo"
    }, {
      "_id": "2",
      "value": "bar"
    }]
  },
  "sink": {
    "type": "json",
    "system": "azure-sb-sink",
    "url": "my_queue"
  },
  "pump": {
    "schedule_interval": 60
  }
}
```
We will use embedded data set with 2 simple entities.  
That's all! Now this pipe will send its embedded data to Azure Service Bus every 60 seconds.  

> In this post we described how to extend functionality of Sesam integration platform by adding a custom data sink connector with about 50 lines of code. In the same manner as a data sink service new data sources ordata transformation services may be added. All of them could run on Sesam node using Docker or be deployed somewhere else. Sesam supports basic and digest authentication schemas for such purpose. All communcation with Sesam extensions is carried out via HTTP and all data transfered in JSON format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this post we described how to extend functionality of Sesam integration platform by adding a custom data sink connector with about 50 lines of code. We have achieved this by 

1. implementing the connector microservice to post data Azure Service Bus, and making it available in DockerHub
2. adding a system in Sesam - which pulls the connecter image 
3. adding a pipe to send data - which simply sends data

In the same manner as a data sink service new data sources or data transformation services may be added. All of them could run on Sesam node using Docker, or be deployed somewhere else. Sesam supports basic and digest authentication schemas for such purposes. All communication with Sesam extensions is carried out via HTTP, and all data is transferred in JSON format.
```

---
layout: post
title: Extending Sesam integration platform with custom data sink service. 
categories: Sesam Integration
tags: [Sesam, Sesam.io, Azure Service Bus]
author: TimurSamkharadze
---

## Introduction

> Sesam is an integration platform. As each other integration platform Sesam has a lot of connectors to read data from different sources which could be databases, API's, streaming platforms such as Apache Kafka or send data to them. However, in many cases you need to deal with services which are not supported out of the box yet. In such cases you need to extend Sesam functionality by writing a custom connector.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sesam is an integration platform. As any other integration platform, Sesam has a lot of connectors to read data from different sources which could be databases, API's, streaming platforms such as Apache Kafka, or to send data to them.  
```

> Today we are going to write a simple connector to push data from Sesam datahub to Azure Service Bus. Sesam platform uses Docker to run extensions and every extension is actually a REST service which takes array of JSON objects as input (data sink service) or returns array of JSON objects (data source service) or do both in case of data transformation service. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today we are going to write a simple connector to push data from Sesam datahub to Azure Service Bus. Sesam platform uses Docker to run extensions and every extension is actually a REST service which takes array of JSON objects as input (data sink service), or returns array of JSON objects (data source service), or do both in case of data transformation service. 
```

If you want to test it for youself, you will need to do 3 things:
* Obtain Sesam account. We explained in [this post](http://blog.sysco.no/data/analysis/Making-data-pipelines-with-Sesam-and-Oslo-City-Bike-public-API-in-5-minutes/) how to do that
* Obtain Azure account [here](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/)

> * Install Docker

Reviewer 2: Add link to Docker installation.

```suggestion
* [Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/)
```

We are going to use Python in this post, but you may use programming language of your choice.

## Let's start

> We are going to run Azure Service bus sink service in isolated environment, so we don't need to deal with things such as authentication. In such a case, all required information needed for service configuration must be provided through environmental variables. You can also use [Sesam Environment Variables](https://docs.sesam.io/configuration.html#environment-variables) or [Sesam vault](https://docs.sesam.io/security.html#secrets-manager) known as _Sesam secret manager_ to provide for example credentials without exposing them.

Reviewer 2: nit: `Azure Service Bus`

> We are going to run Azure Service bus sink service in isolated environment, so we don't need to deal with such things as authentication. In such case all required information needed for service configuration must be provided through environmental variables. You may also use [Sesam vault](https://docs.sesam.io/security.html#secrets-manager) known as _Sesam secret manager_ to provide for example credentials without exposing them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are going to run Azure Service bus sink service in isolated environment, so we don't need to deal with things such as authentication. In such a case, all required information needed for service configuration must be provided through environmental variables. You can also use [Sesam Environment Variables](https://docs.sesam.io/configuration.html#environment-variables) or [Sesam vault](https://docs.sesam.io/security.html#secrets-manager) known as _Sesam secret manager_ to provide for example credentials without exposing them.
```

                                    shared_access_key_value=SERVICE_SAS_TOKEN_VALUE)

    for index, input_entity in enumerate(input_data):
        data: str = json.dumps(input_entity[PAYLOAD_KEY] if PAYLOAD_KEY else input_entity).encode(
            "utf-8")
        msg = Message(data)
        try:
            bus_service.send_queue_message(queue_name, msg)
            logging.info("Entity %s sent successfully", input_entity["_id"])
        except Exception as e:
            logging.error(e)
            abort(500)
    return Response()

if __name__ == "__main__":
    """
    Program entry point
    """
    port = os.environ.get('PORT', 5000)
    logging.info("starting service on port %d", port)
    serve(APP, host='0.0.0.0', port=port)
```

    INFO:root:starting service on port 5000
    

    Serving on http://LAPTOP-DL951UEU:5000
    

This service has one endpoint that serves POST requests and takes queue name as path parameter. Payload must be an array of JSON objects. You may also assign and use environmental variable _PAYLOAD\_KEY_ if you don't need to send a whole Sesam entity with its metadata but only a part of it.

> Next thing we need to do complete our service is to create Docker image of it and push it to a Docker repository where Sesam will be able to pull it. I'm going to use public Dockerhub repository, but images may be placed in any docker repository including private repositories.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next thing we need to do to complete our service is to create Docker image of it and push it to a Docker repository where Sesam will be able to pull it. I'm going to use public Dockerhub repository, but images may be placed in any docker repository including private repositories.  
```

COPY ./* /service/
WORKDIR /service

RUN pip install -r requirements.txt

EXPOSE 5000/tcp

ENTRYPOINT ["python3"]
CMD ["service.py"]
```

Now it's time to use our newly created service to send some data from Sesam to Azure Service Bus.

Login in into Sesam portal and join free of charge "Open Sesam" subscription (this subscription is for open data so don't use it in production or with sensitive data).
Press "Systems" and create new system using following system definition.
```json
{
  "_id": "azure-sb-sink",
  "type": "system:microservice",
  "docker": {
    "environment": {
      "SERVICE_NAMESPACE": "$SECRET(service_namespace)",
      "SERVICE_SAS_TOKEN_NAME": "$SECRET(service_sas_token_name)",
      "SERVICE_SAS_TOKEN_VALUE": "$SECRET(service_sas_token_value)"
    },
    "image": "<location of your image>",
    "port": 5000
  },
  "verify_ssl": true
}

```

> Press "Save" - you system is stored. Then open "Secrets" tab and add following items to Sesam vault:

Reviewer 2: nit: your system is stored.

  },
  "verify_ssl": true
}

```
Press "Save" - you system is stored. Then open "Secrets" tab and add following items to Sesam vault:
* service_namespace - with your Azure Service Bus namespace
* service_sas_token_name - with SAS token name
* service_sas_token_value - with content of SAS token

Now your system will be able to use them without exposing as plain text to everyone including yourself.

> We have now a data sink system and next step is to send some data to it. Open "Pipes" menu and create new pipe using following pipe definition: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have now a data sink system ready to receive data, and next step is to send some data to it. Open "Pipes" menu and create new pipe using following pipe definition: 
```

```json
{
  "_id": "azure-sb-sink-pipe",
  "type": "pipe",
  "source": {
    "type": "embedded",
    "entities": [{
      "_id": "1",
      "value": "foo"
    }, {
      "_id": "2",
      "value": "bar"
    }]
  },
  "sink": {
    "type": "json",
    "system": "azure-sb-sink",
    "url": "my_queue"
  },
  "pump": {
    "schedule_interval": 60
  }
}
```
We will use embedded data set with 2 simple entities.  

> That's all! Now this pipe will send its embedded data to Azure Service Bus every 60 seconds.  

Reviewer: You might want to add a screenshot -from Azure for example- to show that the message was enqueued.

Author: Too late, my free trial account is already gone =(

> In this post we described how to extend functionality of Sesam integration platform by adding a custom data sink connector with about 50 lines of code.  

Reviewer: I suggest a bit longer summary here- with a short walk through for example..This is to be able to address the ones who skips the implementation details.

Author: @egemenyavuz added som lines of text
